for last season as we look at Fanning on
their rankings
I can see a little splash OH
holy excuse me
looks like Fanning meeting
[Music]
panting needing some assistance he's
swimming into the beach as we sound the
horn to stop the final banning so
swimming on his own right to the
assistance of the jet skis he'll hop on
the sled and reset so climbing up with
his own ability as he keeps his head
down
Fanning with a thumbs up he is okay
rushing to the water safety his leash
suit off as he shakes this one off and
the water safety on hand is Mick catches
his breath Wilson also out of the lineup
with Peter Miller once again the
finalists paused as we're gonna clear
the lineup now to let Fanning catch his
grass but a big sigh of relief seeing
Fanning in one piece
[Music]
as we saw the fin out the back well
yeah that's one of the dangers of
professional surfing and nervous moments
right there what a moment in pro surfing
we've seen the shark rule come into
effect at this very venue but nothing
ever seen before that dramatic and that
frightening is Fanning shakes this one
off and we're so happy that he's okay on
the back of the sled one of those scary
moments in surfing in South Africa this
time in the final before you even caught
a wave big thanks to our water safety
reacting quickly to go to mix side you
can see that leash broken right off both
of them on the boat as we will wait for
more word from our commissioner's office
the ceiling will you be completing this
final yeah well
growing up in South Africa that's
experienced a lot of that kind of stuff
around me yeah just we're just trying to
process I think more than anything you
know you kind of just want a hug
but you wrestled the shark hey you know
and this is why this is here right this
is exactly why this is here everyone is
uh we're all here everyone's cool
everyone's safe
no absolutely no no nothing just to cut
leash but um we're very fortunate I'll
tell you what
Mick yeah give us a little bit of a
rundown what happened as I'm attachable
I'm just sitting there just like just
stopped moving and then I felt something
grab like got stuck in my leg rod and I
like instantly just just jumped like a
why and then I just kept coming at my
ball and I just like kicking and
screaming and well see some teeth you
get some teeth I just saw a fin I didn't
say them
okay sounds all right for the taste to
come at me as I was swimming I loved it
she had a couple punches in I punched it
in the back I cannot believe this is I
was I'm falling here but I mean hey well
we'll get the process here for a bit and
yeah you guys got taken away and see
what our process is going there he and
make fan
right now we're waiting on an update
establishing the final as Fanning takes
us home in an emotional scary dramatic
moment in pro surfing and Fanning and
Julian Wilson are okay and on the safety
of the boats as we'll wait for our words
from our commissioner's office to get
the result to see how we're gonna run
this final member Wilson of the 6.67 now
let's get that update
Rosie Hodge he's with Renato Hickel
that's right I'm standing by with Deputy
Commissioner were not a nickel and this
is a situation you know the shop
election came into effect because of a
j-bay heat that occurred with tajabbar
Oh what is the situation right now how
does the Commissioner's Office handle
this well Rosie we have rules and
regulations in place for this incidents
is actually to shocks apparently so a
three-horn were blast we have now the
heat on hold and we will only resume the
file the final once we 100% sure it will
be safe for the surface to compete again
Renato obviously business are gonna be
some kind of a trauma that Mick would
probably feel comfortable going back in
the water so we'll each at 7 found it
when his mental space is that before he
enters the water again yeah absolutely
you know not only make but Julian as
well you know maybe that don't feel
comfortable to have to compete today and
then we're gonna have to address the
situation this is the first time in
professional surfing history you know I
never experienced nobody ever
experiencing a situation like that where
a surface actually tackled by two sharks
right when is the winner final starts so
we're gonna address the situation and
we'll let you everyone knows what we're
going to do in in a in a few minutes all
right well obviously the safety of the
surface is the most important thing
obviously McCann Julian are okay which
is you know great to see so what does
have to assess what we'll do
moving forward bacteria Thank You Rosie
and Renato for the update we'll keep you
guys posted on the status of this final
with Mick Fanning versus Julian Wilson
has Ronaldo mentioned he's been on tour
for several decades
this is the first incident he's ever had
in pro surfing watching this go down
Potsie one new title in 89
have you ever seen anything like this
happen oh I've seen sharks in the water
doing an event in Reunion
Shane hearing and I got scared out of
the water by a big tiger shark but
that's the first time I've ever seen a
surfer come that close to being
literally attacked in the water you know
Mick did exactly what he what he's
supposed to do get himself away from the
board obviously that the shark was
interested in his his board got tangled
up in his leash and that was a very
scary situation so right there making
chili and being the big sigh of relief
the j-bay Open final is totally on hold
we'll take a quick break we'll be right
back